# Tabs Widget

[Building a Tabs component](https://web.dev/building-a-tabs-component/)

[JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/pietrops/v95t6goa/)

W3 Tab widget

[Tabbed Interfaces](https://inclusive-components.design/tabbed-interfaces/)

> There are also cases where a plain HTML element (even when styled) is unsuitable. Perhaps there is none that fully satisfies what you’re trying to do, so you’re building
a component from scratch using buttons and divs. The Web Accessibility Initiative’s Accessible Rich Internet Applications specification (usually referred to as WAI-ARIA or just ARIA) can be a useful tool in this regard.

ARIA allows you to add hints that indicate what the semantics and structure of these elements are. 

Take, for example, a tabbed view on a web page. It is common to implement this with a list followed by a series of divs that are selectively made visible based on which list item is selected.  By itself, this structure doesn’t give enough information in the HTML to do the right thing, and CSS is often used to style this to look like the familiar tab structure a user might expect. Similar to the way we use CSS to style the list to look like tabs so that the user knows they’re tabs, ARIA allows us to give the list a “role” so non-visual users also know their tabs. In the case of tabs, the list would be given a role of tablist by adding an HTML5 attribute of role, e.g., `<ul class="tabs- list" role="tablist">`. 

You would also give the link to each tab a role of tab and the divs containing the actual content a role of tab panel.
The final missing piece is to describe the relationship between the divs and the appropriate item in the list. aria-described by is another attribute that can be helpful here, and is used by adding to the content divs to reference the list item that describes this content. 

The downside here is that it refers to the other element by ID, and using the id attribute in HTML is often frowned upon (as it can limit reusability and cause issues with specificity in CSS), but careful choice of IDs for accessibility purposes can avoid any reusability issues and maintain manageable.

Chapter 9 page 213 (224 pdf) of "The Full Stack Developer" Book

Altho this ⬆️ is in contrast with the example at where they use `button` instead of `a`

[W3C Tabs](Tabs%20Widget%20f36a5a9885a64451a1232d2cb05dd853/W3C%20Tabs%205c448a4e066c49cba1034fe133d86a34.md)

from same book Chapter 9 page 223 (234 pdf) of "The Full Stack Developer" Book

> **Buttons vs. Anchors**
When creating dynamic elements, it can be tempting to use <a> tags and add click event handlers to it in JavaScript. This can be jarring for users of AT tools, as the usual semantics of an <a> tag take you somewhere else (a different part of the same document, or another document altogether), as opposed to a <button>, which is used to trigger an action.
When implementing actions, using the right HTML element can help screen readers interpret the page as well as suggesting the correct semantics, although styling a button can seem like more work than styling an a tag. The use of <a href="#"> is an anti- pattern to be avoided, as the href indicates that a link goes nowhere, which suggests that the link is actually an action, and should be a button.