# Positioning

[z-index](Positioning%20f601ac49387248fb86f01a1e98972966/z-index%205a7d2df92eb04fcab02b4531d3a8b5bd.md)

> **Positioning techniques**
Positioning allows you to move an element from where it would be placed when in normal flow to another location. Positioning isn’t a method for creating your main page layouts, it is more about managing and fine-tuning the position of specific items on the page.

There are however useful techniques for certain layout patterns that rely on the [position](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position) property. Understanding positioning also helps in understanding normal flow, and what it is to move an item out of normal flow.

There are five types of positioning you should know about:

**Static** positioning is the default that every element gets — it just means "put the element into its normal position in the document layout flow — nothing special to see here".

**Relative** positioning allows you to modify an element's position on the page, moving it relative to its position in normal flow — including making it overlap other elements on the page.

**Absolute** positioning moves an element completely out of the page's normal layout flow, like it is sitting on its own separate layer. From there, you can fix it in a position relative to the edges of the page's `<html>` element (or its nearest positioned ancestor element). This is useful for creating complex layout effects such as tabbed boxes where different content panels sit on top of one another and are shown and hidden as desired, or information panels that sit off screen by default, but can be made to slide on screen using a control button.

**Fixed** positioning is very similar to absolute positioning, except that it fixes an element relative to the browser viewport, not another element. This is useful for creating effects such as a persistent navigation menu that always stays in the same place on the screen as the rest of the content scrolls.

**Sticky** positioning is a newer positioning method which makes an element act like `position: static` until it hits a defined offset from the viewport, at which point it acts like `position: fixed`.

from 

[Introduction to CSS layout - Learn web development | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Introduction#positioning_techniques)

> Last on this overview of layout mechanisms is positioning. The position property changes how an element behaves in the normal flow of the document, and how it relates to other elements. The available options are `relative`, `absolute`, `fixed` and `sticky` with the default value being `static`.

[Layout](https://web.dev/learn/css/layout/#positioning)